**ALXTIS** // FASHION BEYOND
# AN INTRODUCTION TO CREATIVE COMPUTING WITHIN FASHION
The first thing that comes to your mind when thinking of creative computing isn't necessarily fashion, is it? Overall, the subject seems quite dull and not nearly as exciting as a striking new garment strolling down the fasion runway during the latest season. However, this article will completly change your perspective on technology within fashion and is going to open up a whole new dimension for you to get lost and mesmerised in.

#### BUT WHAT EVEN IS CREATIVE COMPUTING?
Unfortunately, a quick wikipedia search won't give you the answer as it is described quite complicated for someone who is new to the subject. But don't you worry, I am here to break it down for you; it basically refers to the usage of techonolgy within a creative field. However, don't quote me on that! I don't know if that explenation fully covers every aspect of it. Anyway, we are beginners, so my explenation will be accurate enough.

#### SOUNDS COMPLICATED! HOW IS THAT EVEN APPLICABLE TO FASHION?
I am glad you asked! In the upcoming few paragraphs I will give you some examples of technology in fashion. We are mainly gonna talk about how technology can be used to be part of the garment itself. Thinking about it, can the model wearing it be classified as a robot? (Badumtss). Anyway, moving on. >I am also going to briefly touch upon digtial fashion and the metaverse. In the metaverse you can buy clothing that is only present visually but not physically, almost like in the matrix. Freaky!

So buckle up and let's get started:

## WEREABLE TECHNOLOGY
Okay, since we are talking about an absolute massive market here, I chose a couple of examples that I personally find quite interesting to look at. First I wanna talk about a designer called Hussein Chalayan. Not only because he graduated from Central Saint Martins and I like to brag about how I go to the same University as designers that became famous, but also because he is an absolute prime example of someone who creates wearable technology. He uses a variation of methods to implement technology into his garments, like lights, lasers and crystals, but also puts machinery into his clothing, making them fully transformative. Sidenote: Did you know he worked with Tilda Swinton? Cool, right? I hope my degree will bring me an opportunity like that too! 

Next, let's look at Ying Gao, also known as the fashion airbender. She studied fashion design in Switzerland and the central theme of her work is air. Her garments react to air in different kind of ways; one being inflated as soon as the pressure dectector in the back of it gets touched, another one unfurls with the breath of the wearer and a final one is animated when approached. Only people having studied in Switzerland can come up with such complex concepts, what a country full of geniuses! Did I mention I grew up in Switzerland and lived there up to my early 20s?

I would also like to introduce you to Iris Van Herpen, the fashion technology godess herself. She often gets inspired by the most impossible materials to recreate, therefore relying on advanced technology to mimic those materials in some shape or another. For example, one of her dresses looks like water is splashed onto the model's body, how insane is that? She basically reinvented the Niagara Falls with that garment. She also had an instillation in which a dress got directly 3D printed onto the model. All infront of an audience - pure insanity in the best way possible! However, I need to shut op now ir otherwise I will never stop blabbing on.

Lastly, we are going to talk about Auroboros, a digital fashion brand that creats clothing that exists visually but not physically. It all started off as a means of creating high end fashion that wouldn't be as environmentally unfriendly and not be overprised, so more people could get invested in fashion.  At least someone is thinking about the fashion-obsessed CSM students with 30k of depth on their back. Therefore, they are selling a service in which they will edit digital clothing onto you. Additionally, they have also started to produce MR filters, meaning you can download a filter onto your phone that will detect your body put you into digital clothing. Obviously, the clothing will only appear on your phone screen and not in real life. We haven't reached the Matrix just yet, regardless of the 4th movie coming out soon. However, (apologies for bringing her up in advance), but ever since miss Rona crashlanded on earth, the fashion industry has been moving more and more into the digital realm and is trying to escape from burning planet earth into the metaverse. The metaverse is basically this alternate dimension in which we can take on another identity. It's quite scary stuff really, but somehow I am still very addicted to reading about it.

Here we are, the end of this text. I hope you enjoyed this very short but exciting trip into creative computing within fashion and maybe you've picked up interest in it yourself? I will leave some references for you to further explore this topic in case you are as fascinated by it as I am. Take care and we will see each other in the metaverse. All glamed up of course!
